As Randy mentioned in our introduction,
this is the first video and
as always we start off with the acronyms
of things you're gonna see for
the rest of this course.
Now, the more you put into this
particular section the less
your gonna have to put in later.
Cuz all of these terms and
acronyms that we're gonna talk about,
obviously they're gonna be.
>> Yeah, they come up multiple times.
>> Come up all the time.
You don't wanna have to go reference it.
And if you do have to reference it,
then might as well reference
your cheat sheet, right?
>> Right.
>> So we're gonna have you make one of
those, just like all the other courses.
Starting off right here, what is VoIP?
VoIP, an acronym,
Voice over Internet Protocol.
Now Internet Protocol also on the slides
here that you can see is basically
a set of rules that's used to transfer
data over what we would call the Internet,
intranet, or any sort of network that
functions under the Internet Protocol.
On this list you see a lot of
other cool little acronyms,
things that you're gonna see throughout
the remainder of this course.
But some ones that we'd like to point out,
cuz this list is very long.
PSTN, public switched telephone network,
now that's a way for us
to kind of communicate with the old-school
telephony networks with VoIP network.
So it's kind of the gateway to kind of-
>> So it connects them all.
>> Yeah, connects everything in there.
So that's the gateway that connects VoIP
with old school circuit switch networks.
We have SIP, we're gonna go really
in depth in that in the next module.
You'll get to see a lot about that, just
basically session initiation protocol.
And then the ATA, which also we're gonna
go into as well, which is just a form or
a little device that you can hook into
your traditional telephone to give it
a analog to digital converter to
send your packets over the internet.
>> Right.
>> Right, so here we go.
>> So next-
>> Some more-
>> Yeah, we have a lot of,
there are tons of different
kinds of protocols.
So we got a couple here listed.
RTP, so that's Real-Time Transport
Protocol, where basically the goal is to
try to get real-time data because
sometimes you're sending data,
you might have a delay to make
sure everything gets sent.
And that might be really annoying
cuz you want it instantly, right?
>> [LAUGH]
>> So there you go, real time.
But then there's UDP and TCP.
And they're sort of opposites of
each other, where the user datagram,
without setting up any kind of channels,
it just sends the data right away.
And then TCP, where it just
makes a connection beforehand.
So you lose less data,
but it's a bit slower.
>> Yeah in a later module
you'll see a datagram.
I know we threw that out there but
you'll see it in a nice datagram.
We'll show you how it works and stuff.
>> Right.
>> Some other cool acronyms here
that you might see us mention or
you might see on the, on the-
>> Following modules.
>> In the following modules right here.
Just kinda take a look at it,
take some time.
Some interesting ones we think
transport layer security.
You'll notice every time you kind of
connect to the internet or do something
like that you might have to choose what
kind of security you'd like to set for it.
>> Yeah,
a certain kind of encryption pattern, or
something like that to make sure that
someone can't just steal your data.
>> Yeah exactly.
So, you can always go search the Internet,
find out a little bit more.
Go to Wikipedia about it.
Pause it, pause the slide right there.
Go back, pause it and take a look at it.
Next one, something really interesting,
one at least I'll talk about the IPvX.
The X is actually just a variable for
the version number so
you have the Internet protocol version x.
>> Right.
>> Right, so the first actual kind of
prominent version of the IP or
the Internet Protocol was the version 4.
Right now,
I think the successor is version 6.
But yeah, again, go search
Internet Protocol on the Internet,
you'll get the Wiki page.
You can read up a lot more about that.
Maybe search IPv4 or IPv6.
You can probably read up a lot more
about the different versions of
the Internet protocol.
Just the rules that were created and
we kind of abide by.
Yeah, so GUI, ICE.
You've seen GUI in other of our courses.
GTK, XML,
XML's a type of data that's sent.
So there we go.
That was our-
>> That was our-
>> Our set of acronyms.
>> Our beefy acronym slides.
>> Make sure you go back,
put those on your cheat sheet,
things you might wanna reference.
>> Right, so we'll see you next time.
>> Great.